.\" Manpage for ingraft.
.\" Source lives at packages/cli/man/ingraft.1 in the ingraft repository.
.\" Mirror at packages/ingraft/man/ingraft.1 must stay byte\-identical.
.TH INGRAFT 1 "2026-05-20" "ingraft 0.3.2" "ingraft Manual"
.
.SH NAME
ingraft \- repository context router for coding agents
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ingraft
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ targets ...]
.PP
.B ingraft
.RI < repo >...
.PP
.B ingraft
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ingraft
routes durable repository context into coding\-agent workflows so that
agents \(em Claude, Codex, Cursor, Copilot, cloud workers, and PR bots \(em
read the same source, docs, and tool routes across handoffs.
.PP
The main route is version\-matched upstream source vendored under
.IR vendor/ ,
written with one of four strategies:
.BR subtree ,
.BR submodule ,
.BR clone-ignore ,
or
.BR cache-link .
.B ingraft
also helps pick lighter routes when source should stay out of git:
ignored local clones, shared cache links, narrow repository packs,
lazy source fetches, local search tools, and generated project
instructions.
.PP
With no arguments,
.B ingraft
launches an interactive OpenTUI dashboard for scanning, matching,
routing, and updating context. With a positional repository argument
it behaves like
.BR "ingraft add" .
With a subcommand it dispatches to that subcommand.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B add \fI<repo>...\fR
Add durable source context from one or more repositories, aliases,
npm package names, or
.BI hex: <package>
packages. See
.B STRATEGIES
for storage routes.
.TP
.B add-org \fI<owner>\fR
Discover every repository under a GitHub organization or user and
vendor them into
.IR "vendor/<owner>/<repo>" .
Filters include
.BR \-\-language ,
.BR \-\-since ,
.BR \-\-visibility ,
.BR \-\-include-archived ,
.BR \-\-include-forks .
Defaults to the
.B clone-ignore
strategy.
.TP
.B fork \fI<upstream>\fR
Create or reuse an editable GitHub fork checkout in a parallel
workspace and expose it as a read\-only local vendor projection.
Use
.B ingraft fork status
to list recorded forks.
.TP
.B update \fR[\fI<name>\fR]
Pull upstream changes for one or all durable source routes.
.TP
.B remove \fI<name>\fR
Remove durable source context. With
.B \-\-dangerously-rewrite-history
.B ingraft
rewrites every local ref via
.BR git-filter-repo (1)
so the vendor path disappears from history; this changes commit SHAs
and requires coordinated force\-pushes and re\-clones.
.TP
.B list
List durable source routes derived from git commit trailers. Use
.B \-\-versions
to resolve package and version drift metadata. Use
.B \-\-json
for machine\-readable output.
.TP
.B deps
Scan project package manifests
.RI ( package.json ", " mix.exs ", " Package.swift ", "
Android Gradle), match npm and Hex repository metadata, and vendor
selected source repositories. Supports
.BR \-\-dry-run ,
.BR \-\-json ,
.BR \-\-strategy ,
and
.BR \-\-yes .
.TP
.B init
Bootstrap agent docs,
.IR .gitignore ,
.IR .gitattributes ,
editor settings, and tool ignores, then commit. Also sets
.B ingraft.forkMode
interactively when the repository is a GitHub fork.
.TP
.B refresh
Re\-generate agent docs, gitignore, gitattributes, editor settings,
and tool ignores from the current git state.
.TP
.B context
Detect or run optional context tools that complement durable source
routes.
.RS
.TP
.B context pack \fR[\fI<path>...\fR]
Run
.BR repomix (1)
against
.I vendor/
or selected paths. Use
.B \-\-compress
for Tree\-sitter compression.
.TP
.B context source \fI<target>\fR
Run
.B opensrc
and print the cached source path for a package or repository.
.RE
.TP
.B doctor
Inspect repository context routes and detected formatter, linter,
editor, agent, and monorepo tool status. Use
.B \-\-fix
to repair generated agent docs, hygiene files, editor settings, and
tool ignores. Use
.B \-\-json
for machine\-readable output.
.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show command help.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the
.B ingraft
version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-completions " " \fIshell\fR
Print a shell completion script. Choices:
.BR bash ", " zsh ", " fish ", " sh .
.TP
.BR \-\-log-level " " \fIlevel\fR
Set the minimum log level. Choices:
.BR all ", " trace ", " debug ", " info ", " warn ", "
.BR error ", " fatal ", " none .
.
.SH ADD OPTIONS
The following options apply to
.B ingraft add
and (where noted) similar commands.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-ref " " \fIref\fR
Branch, tag, or commit to vendor. Defaults to the upstream's default
branch.
.TP
.B \-\-tag \fIvX.Y.Z\fR
Git tag to vendor.
.TP
.B \-\-release \fItag|latest\fR
Host release to vendor. Use a GitHub/GitLab release tag or the literal
.B latest
for the most recent release.
.TP
.B \-\-sync-package \fIname\fR
Resolve the vendored ref from the root
.I package.json
dependency version and persist the sync intent for future
.B ingraft update
runs.
.TP
.B \-\-cloudflare-artifact
Import the source repository into Cloudflare Artifacts and clone the
short\-lived Artifacts remote locally. Implies
.BR clone-ignore .
.TP
.B \-\-cloudflare-artifact-depth \fIN\fR
Optional import depth for the Cloudflare Artifacts REST import API.
.TP
.B \-\-cloudflare-artifact-name \fIname\fR
Cloudflare Artifacts repository name. Defaults to the durable source
route name.
.TP
.B \-\-exclude \fIglob\fR
Repo\-relative glob to omit. Repeatable. Example:
.B \-\-exclude '*.png'
.TP
.B \-\-exclude-dir \fIdir\fR
Repo\-relative directory to omit. Repeatable.
.TP
.B \-\-exclude-ext \fIext\fR
File extension to omit. Repeatable.
.TP
.B \-\-include \fIglob\fR
Repo\-relative glob to keep. Repeatable. When set, only matching paths
are vendored (allow\-list).
.TP
.B \-\-include-dir \fIdir\fR
Repo\-relative directory to keep. Repeatable. When set, only matching
subtrees are vendored.
.TP
.B \-\-max-file-size \fIsize\fR
Omit files larger than this size, for example
.BR 1MB " or " 512KB .
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-prefix " " \fIpath\fR
Vendor prefix path. Defaults to
.IR vendor/<name> .
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name " " \fIname\fR
Override the inferred name (used for the prefix path and lookups).
.TP
.B \-\-strategy \fIstrategy\fR
Vendoring strategy. See
.BR STRATEGIES .
.TP
.BR \-\-local-only ", " \-\-no-commit
Vendor entirely outside tracked git state. Writes the ignore block to
.IR .git/info/exclude ,
persists metadata in
.IR .git/ingraft/state.json ,
and skips host repository commits. Valid only with
.B clone-ignore
or
.BR cache-link .
.
.SH STRATEGIES
.TP
.B subtree
Default. Source is imported via
.BR git-subtree (1)
and committed into the host repository. Use when upstream code is
small enough to become a portable, reviewable part of the repo's
context contract.
.TP
.B submodule
Source is registered as a git submodule (a gitlink). Use when source
needs its own git identity, especially for large upstreams or
fork\-backed vendor patches.
.TP
.B clone-ignore
Source is cloned into the working tree but ignored by git. Use when
agents need files on disk but git history should stay lean.
.TP
.B cache-link
Source is checked out into a shared host\-wide cache directory and
the working tree gets a symlink. Use when many repositories share an
upstream and you want a single on\-disk copy. Cache root defaults to
.IR $XDG_CACHE_HOME/ingraft
.RI ( ~/.cache/ingraft
when
.B $XDG_CACHE_HOME
is unset) or
.BR $INGRAFT_CACHE_DIR .
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I vendor/
Default root for vendored source.
.TP
.I .ingraft/config.toml
Project\-level configuration: default strategy, filters, route
overrides.
.TP
.I .git/info/exclude
Per\-clone ignore block written by
.BR \-\-local-only .
Never tracked, never pushed.
.TP
.I .git/ingraft/state.json
Per\-clone metadata for
.B \-\-local-only
vendors. Never tracked.
.TP
.I AGENTS.md
Agent documentation block bootstrapped by
.B ingraft init
and refreshed by
.BR "ingraft refresh" .
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B INGRAFT_CACHE_DIR
Override the directory used by the
.B cache-link
strategy. Takes precedence over
.BR XDG_CACHE_HOME .
.TP
.B XDG_CACHE_HOME
Standard XDG cache root. Used to derive
.IR $XDG_CACHE_HOME/ingraft
when
.B INGRAFT_CACHE_DIR
is unset.
.TP
.BR GITHUB_TOKEN ", " GH_TOKEN
Authenticate against the GitHub API for higher rate limits and access
to private repositories. Read by the underlying
.BR gh (1)
and git tooling.
.TP
.BR CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN ", " CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID ", " ARTIFACTS_BASE_URL ", " ARTIFACTS_NAMESPACE
Credentials and routing for the Cloudflare Artifacts import path
.RB ( \-\-cloudflare-artifact ).
.TP
.BR NO_COLOR ", " FORCE_COLOR ", " TERM
Standard color and terminal controls honored by the output layer.
.
.SH GIT CONFIGURATION
.TP
.B ingraft.forkMode
.RB ( personal " | " upstream )
When the host repository is a GitHub fork and
.B ingraft.forkMode
is
.BR personal ,
.B ingraft add
defaults to
.B \-\-local-only
so vendored source never leaks to the upstream on push. Set via
.B "ingraft init"
or
.BR "git config ingraft.forkMode personal" .
.B ingraft doctor
flags forks in personal mode that still hold tracked vendor commits.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
Open the dashboard in the current project:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft
.EE
.RE
.PP
Add upstream source as a subtree:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft add Effect-TS/effect
.EE
.RE
.PP
Vendor Effect under an allow\-list using the cache\-link strategy and
skip host commits:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft add Effect-TS/effect \\
    \-\-strategy cache-link \\
    \-\-include-dir packages/effect/src \\
    \-\-include 'src/**/*.ts' \\
    \-\-exclude '*.snap' \\
    \-\-local-only
.EE
.RE
.PP
Vendor multiple repositories and packages in one invocation:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft zod hex:jason swift:apple/swift-argument-parser \\
    Effect-TS/effect
.EE
.RE
.PP
Scan dependencies and vendor every match without prompting:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft deps \-\-yes
.EE
.RE
.PP
Inspect routes and detected tools:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft doctor
$ ingraft list \-\-versions \-\-json
.EE
.RE
.PP
Create an editable fork checkout for upstream patching while keeping
.I vendor/
read\-only:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft fork Effect-TS/effect
.EE
.RE
.PP
Pack a narrow Repomix snapshot of one vendored tree:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft context pack vendor/effect \-\-compress
.EE
.RE
.PP
Install shell completion (zsh shown):
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ ingraft \-\-completions zsh > ~/.zsh/completions/_ingraft
.EE
.RE
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Generic error (unhandled failure).
.TP
.B 2
User\-visible operational failure (invalid arguments, dirty working
tree, missing dependency, git/subtree failure, history rewrite error,
config parse error). The CLI prints a structured error view.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR git-subtree (1),
.BR git-submodule (1),
.BR git-filter-repo (1),
.BR repomix (1),
.BR gh (1),
.BR bunx (1),
.BR npx (1).
.PP
Documentation, strategy guides, and the full CLI reference are at
.B https://ingraft.dev .
.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Gunther Brunner and contributors.
.
.SH BUGS
Report issues at
.B https://github.com/gunta/ingraft/issues .
.
.SH LICENSE
MIT. See the LICENSE file in the source distribution.
